                          SYMBIOSIS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
                               DEPARTMENT OF AI & ML

                                  CA- STAIML (2023-2027)

                              Deadline: 11/04/2024, 7:00 p.m.

Question 1                                  R-based programming
   (a)       Consider a time-series dataset from link and create a R function that returns    CO 1
             the following
             (a) Mean
             (b) Median
             (c) Std Deviation
             (d) Variance
             (e) Skewness and Kurtosis
             (f) Histogram
             (g) Scatter plot
             (h) Q1, Q2, Q3, and Q4
             (i) Pearson’s Correlation Coefficient
             (j) Box plot
   (b)       Convert the above calculated results in form a dataframe for all possible        CO 2
             numeric attributes of the dataset thereof.
   (c)       Demonstrate and explain the logical reasoning behind the working of for-loop
             and while loop in R with a suitable example.
   (d)       Consider a time-series dataset from link and do as directed
             (i) Calculate the correlation coefficient between two continuous variables.
             (ii) Determine whether the correlation is statistically significant.
             (iii) Visualize the relationship between variables using a scatter plot.

Question 2                            Python-based programming
   (a)       Write a Python class using OOPs concept that returns the moving average of
             a time-series sequence. The class instance should accept moving average
             window as the only input argument.
   (b)       (i) Calculate the mean, median, mode, standard deviation, and range of a
             given dataset using Python libraries such as NumPy and Pandas.
             (ii) Generate summary statistics for a dataset, including count, mean,
             standard deviation, minimum, 25th percentile, median, 75th percentile, and
             maximum values.

   (c)       (i) Fit a linear regression model to predict a dependent variable based on one
             or more independent variables using libraries like scikit-learn.
             (ii) Interpret the coefficients of the linear regression model.
             (iii) Evaluate the goodness of fit of the model using metrics such as R-
             squared, adjusted R-squared, and root mean squared error (RMSE).
             Use the model to make predictions on new data points.

   (d)       (i) Create a histogram to visualize the distribution of a numerical variable.
             (ii) Plot a scatter plot to explore the relationship between two continuous
             variables.
             (iii) Generate a box plot to compare the distribution of a numerical variable
             across different categories.
             (iv) Create a bar chart to visualize the frequency of categorical variables.
Question 3                               PowerBI-based programming
  (a)        Given a dataset (https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/milanzdravkovic/pharma-
             sales-data)
             The dataset is built from the initial dataset consisted of 600000 transactional
             data collected in 6 years (period 2014-2019), indicating date and time of sale,
             pharmaceutical drug brand name and sold quantity, exported from Point-of-Sale
             system in the individual pharmacy. Selected group of drugs from the dataset (57
             drugs) is classified to the following Anatomical Therapeutic Chemical (ATC)
             Classification System categories:

            M01AB - Anti-inflammatory and antirheumatic products, non-steroids, Acetic
             acid derivatives and related substances
            M01AE - Anti-inflammatory and antirheumatic products, non-steroids, Propionic
             acid derivatives
            N02BA - Other analgesics and antipyretics, Salicylic acid and derivatives
            N02BE/B - Other analgesics and antipyretics, Pyrazolones and Anilides
            N05B - Psycholeptics drugs, Anxiolytic drugs
            N05C - Psycholeptics drugs, Hypnotics and sedatives drugs
            R03 - Drugs for obstructive airway diseases
            R06 - Antihistamines for systemic use
             Sales data are resampled to the hourly, daily, weekly and monthly periods. Data
             is already pre-processed, where processing included outlier detection and
             treatment and missing data imputation.


             Construct a PowerBI dashboard for an intelligent business analytics task.
   (b)       Consider a financial dataset
             https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/qks1lver/financial-data-of-4400-public-
             companies . These are data scraped from Yahoo Finance. Annually and quarterly
             balance sheets, cash flow statements, income statements over the past 4 years
             (for annual data) or the past 4 quarters (for quarterly data).
             Construct a PowerBI dashboard for an intelligent business analytics task.
